Welcome to a gentle introduction to R and
RStudio. This tutorial introduces you to the R programming
language and its environment. The videos following will contain tutorials
and hands-on practice. R is a statistical programming language. It is a powerful tool for data processing
and manipulation, statistical inference, data analysis, and Machine Learning algorithms. Based on 2017 Stack overflow visits, they
found that R is most used by academics, healthcare, and the government. R has many functions; which support importing
data from different sources. For example, flat files, databases, the web,
and statistical software like SPSS and STATA. R is a preferred language for some Data Scientists
because it is easy to use the functions within R.
It is also known for producing great visualizations and readily available packages to handle data
analysis without the need to install any libraries. To use R, we need an environment to help run
the codes. One of the most popular environments for developing
and running R language source code and programs is Rstudio. Rstudio is an integrated development environment
that helps improve and increase productivity with the R language. R studio includes:
A syntax-highlighting editor that supports direct code execution and where you keep a
record of your work; a console for typing R commands; a workspace and history tab that shows the list of R objects you created during your
R session and shows the history of all previous commands;
and a Plots, Files, Packages, and Help tab for showing files in your working directory; history of plots you have created and allow for exporting plots to PDF or images files; external R packages available on your local computer and help on R resources, RStudio support,
packages, and more. If R is your tool choice for Data Science,
here are some popular Libraries in the Data Science community. dplyr for manipulating data,
stringer for manipulating strings, ggplot for visualizing data,
and caret for Machine Learning To get you up and learning quickly, we have
provided you with an R Studio virtual environment as part of the Skills Network Labs. This virtual lab environment is designed to
assist you to easily practice what you learn in the course and skip the need to create
an account or download or install anything. You should now be familiar with:
The capabilities of R and its uses in Data Science
The RStudio interface for running R codes and
Popular R packages for Data Science